What causes dementia Alzheimer's Society?
Scientists believe that for most people, Alzheimer's disease is caused by a combination of genetic, lifestyle and environmental factors that affect the brain over time. Less than 1% of the time, Alzheimer's is caused by specific genetic changes that virtually guarantee a person will develop the disease.

What is Mild Dementia?
Alzheimer's disease is often diagnosed in the mild dementia stage, when it becomes clear to family and doctors that a person is having significant trouble with memory and thinking that impacts daily functioning. In the mild dementia stage, people may experience: Memory loss of recent events.

What is Moderate Dementia?
It becomes harder to perform regular daily activities and self-care as dementia progresses. Common symptoms during this stage include: increasing confusion or poor judgment. greater memory loss, including a loss of events in the more distant past.

What is Non Dementia?
Dementia resulting from Alzheimer’s disease has catapulted into the public’s consciousness in the past few years. However, non-Alzheimer’s dementias remain relatively unknown and often poorly diagnosed. More research is needed, not only for effective pharmacological interventions with disease-modifying effects, but also better differential diagnostic techniques to ensure the proper management and care of patients. A Series of three papers summarises the most common non-Alzheimer’s disorders that cause dementia: frontotemporal, Lewy body, and vascular.
https://www.thelancet.com/series/non-alzheimers-dementia

What is Very Mild Dementia?
You still might not notice anything amiss in your loved one's behavior, but they may be picking up on small differences, things that even a doctor doesn't catch. This could include forgetting words or misplacing objects. At this stage, subtle symptoms of Alzheimer's don't interfere with their ability to work or live independently. Keep in mind that these symptoms might not be Alzheimer's at all, but simply normal changes from aging.
https://www.webmd.com/alzheimers/guide/alzheimers-disease-stages
